# the-RANDoms
A Relentless and Realtime Worker Health Analysis System using IoT and Android

IoT has been gradually expanding across different applications which brought a huge attention to the implementation of this project for the mining field, where environments can get a lot noisy and destructive. The main objective of this project is to design and develop a smart helmet and clothing system for mining industry application. The system will provide Realtime monitoring of the hazardous events such as increase in temperature and humidity, release of gasses like Methane, conscious and unconscious state of the miner, removal of helmet of the miner and obstacle damage to the helmet. The programming and troubleshooting will be conducted on mainly two sections, helmet section and control room section that means the system will have a transmitter to transmit necessary data and alerts to the control room or nearest manager and a receiver that can be used by the control room or the managers to grab the data and alerts from the transmitter. On the other side the system also syncs the data to the google firebase database. Apart from this the project also aims to create a system for alerts regarding water rise which is the primary cause of Flooding in mining industries. The above system includes the use of several sensors like IR sensor, Proximity sensor, Humidity Sensor, Gas sensor, and several other modules and microprocessors like node MCU and Arduino. Other problems like Ventilation issues and Haulage problems can be solved by changing the structural construction of mines. The above systems and designs will help stop several hazards and will increase a level of safety and health for the miners, which may attract more number of workers to this field and on the major side it will take an attempt to keep Realtime data for both managers and family members.
